riddle me this it stops you but do you
ever stop long enough to notice it I
sure hope so stop signs and their eight
corners
what's with the shape anyway and why do
crackers have tiny holes in them and why
aren't people born with purple or green
hair why am I asking you when I've found
all the answers why does a stop sign
have eight sides it's the only octagonal
traffic sign but it wasn't always that
way the first stop sign was white and
square as traffic signs became more
widespread since more cars were on the
road the stop sign got a more
eye-catching makeover it was painted
yellow later red and given its
distinctive octagonal shape it can
easily be recognized even when covered
in mud or snow or when a driver is
coming up from behind why do we have
eyebrows the main function of eyebrows
is to protect your eyes from sweat and
dirt that's why they grow toward your
temples to direct moisture to the sides
instead of straight down but they also
protect your eyes from too much sunlight
and get this without them our species
probably would have evolved to have
really long thick eyelashes wink wink
why our airplane wings bent upwards
these curved tips are called winglets
because of the curved shape of the wing
air flowing over it has a lower pressure
than the air below it that difference is
what lifts the airplane but this
difference in pressure also makes little
tornado like vortices at the tips those
can create drag which will make the
aircraft we use up more fuel winglets
get rid of those why don't snore as wake
themselves up indeed a snoring neighbor
keeps you up all night yet they don't
hear a thing
lucky for them and unlucky for you it's
because the human brain just works that
way it analyzes noises even when we're
sleeping and wakes us up only if the
sound is unexpected loud but familiar
noises won't bother a sleeper whose
brain is you
to them hey you can always try using a
cork why do we feel colder when our skin
is wet the moment you get out of the
shower only to discover there are no
towels left you feel like your house has
turned into the Arctic this is because
the water on your skin starts to
evaporate and this process requires
energy water molecules take this energy
in the form of heat from the body so
yeah thank those disappearing water
droplets for taking your precious warmth
why is the sky blue well it's because of
the Earth's atmosphere you can't see it
but the sun's light comes in all colors
from red to violet blue light waves are
shorter than other colors as the light
travels small particles in the air
spread shorter waves in all directions
much stronger which makes the sky blue
oh by the way since the moon doesn't
have much of an atmosphere to spread the
sun's light like that it's daytime skies
are black like it's night when do we
have red eyes and flash photos in ones
taken at night we all look like we have
lasers pointing on our pupils normally
the pupil looks like a black circle on
the eye but it's actually a hole
it appears black because there's no
light inside your eyeball when the
camera flashes it sends light through
the pupil and bouncing off the back wall
of your eye that's full of blood vessels
so you get red in the picture
why is it called a continental breakfast
the roots of this phrase go back to the
19th century when British sailors came
down to continental Europe they were
served with a light breakfast it usually
consists of rolls or pastries with
butter and jam and a cup of coffee or
tea the name stuck around today you can
get continental breakfast in every hotel
even if it's on an island
why do crackers have tiny holes in them
well the reason is simple crackers are
made of puff pastry and without these
holes they'd swell up during cooking air
comes out of the dough and these holes
help the cracker stay flat as we know
them why did pigeons return after
delivering a letter carrier pigeons
might not be used today but plenty of us
have wondered why the birds just didn't
fly free well the answer is simple a
pigeon always flies to its dovecote the
place where it grew up or lived for a
long time but in that case pigeon mail
would only work in one direction to
establish regular two-way communication
birds were trained to fly back and forth
between the house and a special feeding
ground why is it so uncomfortable when a
person stands too close to you well it's
like we have an invisible bubble around
us and feel uncomfortable when someone
enters it will feel that way because we
have a kind of warning bell in our brain
and this is the amygdala this bringing
region controls our emotions and helps
us recognize danger it also lights up on
brain scans when someone stands too
close comfortable personal distance
depends on a bunch of factors and is
unique for everyone why are moles blind
well they aren't moles can't see it's
just that their eyesight is very poor
people believe that moles are blind
because their small eyes are completely
hidden behind fur or covered by skin but
they don't need good eyesight a keen
sense of smell and sensitive hearing are
more useful
underground why is it so hard to train a
cat it can be harder or easier depending
on the breed of dog
but it seems Universal for cats they
just don't take to training so well the
answer is in their nature unlike dogs
individualistic cats don't like being
part of a pack so they won't do anything
just to please the leader so if the cat
doesn't feel like sitting it simply
won't cats are capable of complex
actions but it's almost impossible to
get them to do tricks on command weighty
whales release a fountain of water
whales nostrils evolved into blow holes
on the tops of their heads the whale
surfaces to get rid of the air has been
holding and fill its lungs with fresh
air by the way you can tell a whale's
type by its blowhole if it has too it's
a baleen whale the kind with teeth that
looked more like toothbrush bristles one
blowhole means it's a toothed dwell
which includes dolphins and orcas where
is it called a pizza margherita the
seemingly plain pizza was named in honor
of the Queen of Italy Margherita of
Savoy whether it's legend or fact the
story goes that during her visit to
Naples in 1889 she asked to be served
what simple peasants usually eat well
the cooks were stunned by the Monarchs
odd wish and had to improvise with what
they had dough tomatoes and mozzarella
the Queen liked this dish so much that
her chefs wrote down the recipe and
began to make the pizza for her majesty
[Music]
why are laptops and smartphones in the
same price range smartphones are now
just as sophisticated as laptops are and
some of them can even cost more than a
computer but they aren't really in the
same price range most consumers just buy
top priced smartphones yet there aren't
so many people ready to buy a
high-ticket computer why because phones
are small and convenient
why do emergency calls work without a
signal you have no bars and you see that
familiar emergency calls only message
yet you know cell phones only work
through radio waves pinging off towers
well it's not that your phone doesn't
have any network signal at all this
message just means that your service
provider doesn't cover this particular
area but in case of an emergency your
phone will automatically connect it to
the strongest network it can find so you
can make that urgent call through it why
are there no snakes in Ireland well they
simply couldn't get there yep during the
Ice Age Ireland was covered by a glacier
so the climate wasn't suitable for the
reptiles 10,000 years ago that glacier
melted and Ireland was separated from
other lands by the sea so yet again
snakes were blocked off only this time
by water there are snakes in Great
Britain though because it's separated
from the mainland 2,000 years later
giving the slithery reptiles enough time
to migrate why aren't people born with
blue or green hair well think about it
we're only limited to shades of blonde
brown black and well grey for some of us
sadly we can't naturally have green
purple pink or blue locks that's because
we only have two pigments in our hair
brown black eumelanin and red
pheomelanin since our hair color is
determined solely by these two types of
melanin blue and green can't come out of
this combination so if you'll want a
more exciting color wigs and hair dye
are your only option yep it seems simple
but it can turn into a very hairy issue